# Exercise 07

## Part A

Consider the class `org.pg4200.ex08.ComputationExampleTraditional`, with
passing test cases in `org.pg4200.ex08.ComputationExampleTraditionalTest`.
You need to implement the same functionality, but by using only `streams` and `lambdas`.
In particular, develop a class called `ComputationExampleStream` that
implements the interface `org.pg4200.ex08.ComputationExample`.
The implemented method should start with `return books.stream()` and
end with `.collect(Collectors.toList());`.
You need to use the right methods in between, like for example 
`filter`, `map`, `flatMap` and `distinct`.

Write a test class `ComputationExampleStreamTest` that extends     
`org.pg4200.ex08.ComputationExampleTestTemplate`.
If your implementation is correct, all tests should pass. 

## Part B

Consider the interface `org.pg4200.ex08.AnotherStream`, which defines a series of
new stream and terminal operators.
Implement a class called `AnotherStreamList` that extends `MyIterableLinkedList` and
that has the following method:

    public AnotherStream<T> stream()
    
When implementing `AnotherStreamList`, you can reuse code parts from `MyStreamSupport`.
For example, the `count()` terminal operation has some similarities with `collectToList()`,
in which you will need to implement your own `Consumer` to count the number of elements
that go through the stream.    
Pay particular attention at `sorted()`, as it would need to read the whole incoming stream
before being able to return a new stream object.  

Write a test class `AnotherStreamTest` to verify that your implementation of `AnotherStream` is correct.

## Part C

Consider the interface `org.pg4200.ex08.ExtendedList`, which defines the same kind
of stream and terminal operations seen in class.
However, instead of using streams, the operations create new list instances.
Write a class `ExtendedListImpl` that extends `MyArrayList` and implements `ExtendedList`.  

Write a test class `ExtendedListImplTest` that 
extends `org.pg4200.ex08.ExtendedListTestTemplate`.
If your implementation is correct, all tests should pass. 

After doing this exercise, ponder on why we need streams.
For example, if we were using only `ExtendedList`, what would be the performance drawbacks
of chaining calls?

## Part D

Study the source code of `MyStreamSupport`.
Once you think you fully understand it, write its implementation
on paper (e.g., using a pen), without looking at the source code.
Once done, compare what you wrote with the actual implementation. 

## Part E

Consider a collection of diploma projects belonging to students in the University. 
Each project has a title and a list of authors.
Each author is a Student, that has a name, a diploma project they participate in, 
and a list of courses they have taken in their studies 
(with an associated numerical grade, between 0 and 5, where 0 is failed).

The task is, starting from a collection of diploma projects and using streams:
Get a list (ArrayList) of diploma project titles, from those students that have taken a given course ]
(identified by courseId, for example “pg4200”), and that have passed that course with at least a grade of 2 
(see numerical grade mentioned above). Since several students may contribute to a given diploma project, 
make sure each title only appears once.

To make things slightly easier, the class `PartETest` contains a couple of methods
to generate diploma projects, courses, and students, to allow you to test your code. 

## Solutions

Solutions to this exercise can be found in the `solutions`
module, under the `org.pg4200.sol08` package.