# Exercise 10

## Part A

Write a class `PatternExamplesImp` that implements the interface
 `org.pg4200.ex10.PatternExamples`.

Implement a test class `PatternExamplesImpTest` that extends 
`org.pg4200.ex10.PatternExamplesTestTemplate`.
If your implementation of  `PatternExamplesImp` is correct, 
then all tests should pass. 


## Part B

Study the source code of `TextSearchKMP`.
Once you think you fully understand it, write its implementation
on paper (e.g., using a pen), without looking at the source code.
Once done, compare what you wrote with the actual implementation.

## Part C

Implement a class `TextSearchKMPCached` that extends `TextSearchKMP`.
You need to override the method `findFirst(String text, String target)` to
be more efficient.
Instead of recomputing the needed data structures for each `target` input,
those should be internally "cached", e.g., in a map.
This means that each single `token` would be computed only once.
If `findFirst` is called a second time with the same `target` input (but possibly
different `text`), then the computation
would be speeded up by re-using the data structures from the cache.

Implement a test class `TextSearchKMPCachedTest` that extends `TextSearchTestTemplate`.
If your implementation of `TextSearchKMPCached` is "functionally" correct, then all tests
should pass.

## Part D

Write a regular expression that matches an exercise definition for this exam. An exercise in this exam starts with the following 2 lines:
- The first line contains “Exercise <no>”, where <no> is the number of the exercise.
  - The second line contains the name and type of file you are expected to deliver. E.g.
    Ex<no> for name and .java, .txt as file types.
    You do not need to check that the numbers match between the file and the exercise,
    but both <no> instances should be numeric only.
    Examples.
    Your expression Should match:
    - “”” Exercise 5:\
          File: Ex05.txt “””
    - “”” Exercise 3:\
          File: Ex03.java “””
    - “”” Exercise 13:\
          File: Ex13.java“””
    
  - Should not match:
  -  “”” Exercise no5:\
          File: Ex05.txt“”” – the exercise number is not numeric only
  -  “”” Exercise 5: File: Ex05.txt“”” – they are not on separate lines
  -  “”” Exercise 5:\
          File: Ex05.pdf “”” – not of a supported type.
  -  “”” Exercise 5:\
          File: Ex05 “”” – no file type
  -  “”” Exercise 5:\
          File: Ex_something05.txt “”” – file name does not match.

## Part E
Write a regular expression that matches all questions asked by user @Bogdan, about the course. For example, this could be a filter on mattermost that allows someone to quickly see all the questions asked by a particular user.
In this case, you can assume that each sentence starts with the name of the user that has typed it followed by a colon ( ‘:’ ), and that there is only one sentence per line.
Examples:
Should match: 
  - “@Bogdan: Has everyone completed all the exercises?”
  - “@Bogdan: Are there any additional questions?”
  - “@Bogdan: Where can I find the solutions for this exercise?”

Should not match:
  - “@Sven: Why do we need to do the exercises?” – different user asking the question
  - “@Bogdan: Exercises will be useful in understanding the topic better.” – not a question
  - “@Bogdan – advises that you do all the exercises” – different format than expected (i.e. missing ":")
  - “@Sven: Have you asked @Bogdan about this?” – different user asking the question

## Solutions

Solutions to this exercise can be found in the `solutions`
module, under the `org.pg4200.sol10` package.

