# Exercise 11

## Part A

Implement a class `HuffmanIso` that extends `Huffman`.
In such class, override the methods `writeTrie` and `readTrie`.
When writing/reading a char for a given leaf node, use the charset ISO-8859-1 instead
of the current UTF-16 in `Huffman`.

Note 0: you would lose Unicode support by doing it.

Note 1: for coding/decoding, you can use the method `getBytes` in `String` with
charset `StandardCharsets.ISO_8859_1`.

Write a test class `HuffmanIsoTest` with the following two tests:

* `testCompareOnShortNorwegianSentence` in which you compare both `HuffmanIso` and
  `Huffman` on the text string "Jeg ønsker å få en god karakter i denne eksamenen"
  encoded in UTF-8.
  Verify that `HuffmanIso` can compress it, whereas `Huffman` actually makes it bigger.
  Explain why. 

* `testCompareOnBook` in which you compare both `HuffmanIso` and
  `Huffman` on the text of the Odyssey book encoded in UTF-8.
  Verify that both `HuffmanIso` and `Huffman` do compress it, but their difference
  in compression ratio is minimal (i.e., less than 0.001). 
  Explain why.


## Part B

Consider a string representation for exam grades, in the format of `<id><grade>`, where `id` is a number starting from 0 (can assume __NO MORE__ than 500 students in an exam, and there can be exams with just a couple of students), and grades in the range `A-F`. 
A valid string would be for example:  `0A1F2F3C12F13B14B27A201B497A`.
You can assume that the ids are sorted, but there can be holes in the sequence (e.g., representing students that did not submit).

Write a class `GradeCompressorImp` that implements the given `GradeCompressor` interface. 

You __MUST__ come up with an efficient compression algorithm which is specialized and customized for this problem domain (i.e., do not use either `Huffman` nor `LZW`, but rather use `DnaCompressor` as inspiration). 
For example, if there is just 1 student, you should not use more than 2 bytes in total for the compression. 
If there are 100 students, should not use more than 150 bytes.
In your implementation, you can rely on and use the classes `BitWriter` and `BitReader`.

Write a test class `GradeCompressorTest` that extends the given `GradeCompressorTestTemplate` test suite.
If your implementation of `GradeCompressorImp` is correct, all tests should pass. 

## Part C

Write a compression algorithm for a set of simple chess moves.
Each chess move consists of
<number><piece><origin><destination><check> where:
<number> - the number of the move (i.e. 1 for the 1st, 2 for the 2nd, 3 for the 3rd, etc.) 
<piece> - which of the pieces is being moved (pawn, rook, knight, bishop, queen, King) 
<origin>, <destination> - designation of the respective square, in the form E2, H1, A8, etc. Squares are designated with a letter A-H and a number 1-8.
<check> - a move that results in a check will be marked with !
e.g.
"1pe2e4" - Move 1. Pawn from e2 to e4. 
"2pe7e5" - Move 2. Pawn from e7 to e5. 

1pc2c32pd7d63qd1a4!4pb7b5
1pf2f32pe7e53pg2g44qd8h4!

Write a class called `ChessCompressor`  that extends the `GenericCompressor` to perform the compression.

You __MUST__ come up with an efficient compression algorithm which is specialized and customized for this problem domain (i.e., do not use either `Huffman` nor `LZW`, but rather use `DnaCompressor` as inspiration).

Write a class called `ChessCompressorTest` to test your work.

## Part D

Write a compression algorithm for a catalog of archival documents. The idea is that there is a large amount of documents stored in archives throughout Norway, and a central repository is needed to keep track of it.
There are 7 possible archives, for this exercise: 
NationalArchive     – NAT
OsloArchive         – OSL
BergenArhive        – BER
KristiansandArchive – KRS 
TrondheimArchive    – TRO 
TromsoArchive       – TRM 
MaritimeArchive     - MAR
For each document you have:
<Date> - the date at which the document was written.
The date is in the format: year – month – day. Where the month is written as a 3-letter code: (JAN, FEB, MAR, etc.).
<Archive> - which archive stores the document (Can be one of 7 archives, for this exercise, see above).
Location – where the document is stored. Consists of:
<ArchiveCode> - a 3 letter code that identifies the archive where the document is stored. (see the list of archives above).
<Building> - a 2 digit code that identifies which building stores the document. (NOTE: for this exercise, no archive has more than 14 buildings, numbered 1 to 15).
<RoomNumber> - the number of the room. We can safely assume that no building has more than 1023 rooms.
<Shelf> - the number of the shelf. We can safely assume that no room has more than 2047 shelves.
Each document is described by a separate line with the format:
<Date>; <Archive>; <ArchiveCode>; <Building>; <RoomNumber>; <Shelf>;
Example inputs:
1815-JUN-18; OsloArchive;     OSL; 13; 42; 1500;
1805-DEC-02; NationalArchive; NAT; 07; 84; 1780;
1805-OCT-21; MaritimeArchive; MAR; 03; 126; 1111;
1814-MAY-17; NationalArchive; NAT; 01; 01; 0001;
1905-JUN-07; NationalArchive; NAT; 02; 42; 0042;

You __MUST__ come up with an efficient compression algorithm which is specialized and customized for this problem domain (i.e., do not use either `Huffman` nor `LZW`, but rather use `DnaCompressor` as inspiration).

Write a class called `ArchiveCompressor`  that extends the `GenericCompressor` to perform the compression.
Write a class called `ArchiveCompressorTest` to test your work.

## Solutions

Solutions to this exercise can be found in the `solutions`
module, under the `org.pg4200.sol11` package.  